posita libera breviora undulata crispa. Labellum cucullatum
trilobum unguiculatum lamellatum et verrucis conicis obsitum.
Columna libera semiteres elongata basi paulo producta utrin-
que dente aucta, stigmate subquadrato, rostello brevi bifido,
anthera dorsalis ovata acuta bilocularis, connectivo crasso
intra cucullum carnosum clinandrii insertum. Pollinia 4 ge-
minata arcuata subfarinacea.“ [Ex Lindley Gen. et Sp. 498]

„Terrestrial Stem 1 foot high clothed with many linear
oblong acuminated reflexed glaucous shining and striated
leaves whose bases are sheathing and their extremities tipped
with brown, the leaves become smaller upward and gradually
change into lanceolate bracteae. Flowers few (3) in a ter-
minal spike very large and singular in their appearance.
The petals all of a greenish colour, beautifully striated with
a deeper hue, their extremities and margins white. Upper
‘segment erect oblong obtuse 2 inches (εἰἶ 5cm) long the
margin entire and even„ the 2 interior ones are a little
shorter obovate sinuated and plaited at the margin, the
2 lateral or rather lowermost are 3 inches (ΠΜ 7‚5 cm) long
spathulate of a bluer green in the inside, the broad extremity
remarkably plaited at the margin while its surface is studded
With many roundish or linear white papillae tipped with
green. The labellum is scarcely so long as these, reflexed
broadly obIong, the sides curved upwards waved and plaited
especially at the extremity where the surface is papillose as
in the petals just described2 at the base it is suddenly con-
tracted into a short white claw having an orange spot at
the base and the inner surface sor more half the length is
in the middle furnished·with about 6 vertical green plates
or lamellae os Which the extremities are free sharp and
curved a little upwards. Germen angular thickened upwards‚
column linear oblong decurved semicylindraceous marked With
2 depressed longitudinal lines, the base dilated deep red and

marked With a tooth on each side2 upwards in the front is ’

the subquadrate depressed green stigma terminated by a
short bifid Hp, the back of the colum is green and within
the summit of it, Which forms an imperfect upperlip‚ is
situated the ovato-acuminate green -auther case. Cells 2

